01:01 Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with us in the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ:
01:02 Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
01:03 According to the divine power granted to us, through the knowledge of the one who called us by His own glory and excellence.
01:04 According to the great and precious promises given to us, you have become participants of God's divine nature, escaping the corruption in the world caused by lust.
01:05 And this very thing, diligently making every effort, you have supplied in your faith virtue; in which also knowledge.
01:06 In knowledge, self-control; in self-control, patience; in patience, godliness.
01:07 In godliness is brotherly kindness, in brotherly kindness is love.
01:08 These things are producing in you not only mere knowledge, but also the power of discernment for the understanding of the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
01:09 Blind and unable to see, he is, having taken hold of the ignorance concerning the cleansing of his former sins.
01:10 More, brethren, make every effort to confirm your calling and election; for in this way you will never stumble.
01:11 Thus, abundantly will the way to the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ be supplied to you.
01:12 I will always remember you concerning these things, although you know and are established in the present truth.
01:13 Righteous are I to be, as long as I am in this tabernacle, I intend to awaken you with reminder.
01:14 Knowing that my dwelling is swiftly coming to pass, as also our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me.
01:15 I will strive eagerly and always have you remember these things after my departure.
01:16 We have not followed cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
01:17 This taking up by the Father of glory and honor at his voice that came from the majestic glory, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
01:18 And this voice that came from heaven we heard with him, being there in the holy mountain.
01:19 And we have a more sure word of prophecy, to which you do well to pay heed as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts.
01:20 This firstly knows that every prophecy of scripture does not come from personal interpretation.
01:21 Human beings were carried along by the Holy Spirit, speaking from God.
02:01 Emerged also false prophets among the people, as among you there will be false teachers who introduce heresies leading to destruction, and denying the Master who bought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves.
02:02 Many will follow their immorality, resulting in the way of truth being blasphemed.
02:03 And in their covetousness they will exploit the foolish, promising them freedom while themselves being slaves of corruption; for a repayment of their erring they are not reluctant, and their destruction does not tarry.
02:04 If indeed God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to pits of deep darkness, reserved in chains for judgment.
02:05 And of the ancient world he did not spare, but saved Noah, the eighth person of righteousness, through flooding the ungodly world.
02:06 Destroyed the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah by reducing them to ashes, serving as a warning for the unrighteous in the future.
02:07 Righteous Lot, delivered from the wickedness that enveloped them by God.
02:08 Condemned the unrighteous with his righteous life
02:09 Righteous ones know that the Lord delivers from trials, but unrighteous ones He reserves for a day of judgment.
02:10 Mostly, those following after the flesh in sensual lust for the defilement and disdaining of lordship. Bold, reckless, unshaken in glory, blaspheming,
02:11 Powerful and mighty angels, despite their superior strength, do not bear blasphemy against them.
02:12 These are waterless clouds, brought forth for a rainstorm, to whom the mist of darkness is reserved. In their own destruction, they will perish, while speaking blasphemy.
02:13 Unjustly receiving wages for wickedness, they indulge in sensuality in the day of gluttony, wallowing in deceptions as they feast with you on your own corruption.
02:14 Corrupters, having eyes full of adultery and unceasing in wickedness, they enslave minds, hearts set on greed, cursing children.
02:15 Abandoning the straight path, they were led astray, following the way of Balaam the son of Beor, who loved the wage of wickedness.
02:16 Condemned, however, was his own unrighteousness; for he obtained a recompense for his conduct in the person of a donkey speaking with a human voice, who stopped the prophet's madness.
02:17 These are waterless pitfalls and unproductive clouds, brought along by a tempest, to which the darkness of the obscurity has been preserved.
02:18 Lying likenesses of wickedness they are, speaking boastfully in their depraved desires, ensnaring the weak who have just escaped from those living in error.
02:19 They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of decay, for whoever has been overcome by it has become subject to it.
02:20 Fleeing from the defilements of the world by the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, if they again yield, their latter condition has become worse than the former.
02:21 Better for them it was not to know the way of righteousness, than after knowing, to turn away from the holy commandment given to them.
02:22 Turned back the dog to his own vomit, and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.
03:01 I already write the second letter to you, beloved, in which I stir up your remembrance, by way of reminder, to the genuine (or sincere) thinking.
03:02 Recall the words previously spoken by the holy prophets and the commandment of your apostles, the Lord and Savior.
03:03 This first know that they are coming in the last days, according to their own desires, carrying out their desires. (2 Peter 3:3)
03:04 Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation.
03:05 The heavens existed formerly, and the earth was formed out of water, through which by the word of God the world was made.
03:06 Through which, in that time, the world was flooded and perished by water.
03:07 The present heavens and earth are being stored in fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly people.
03:08 One thing I want to make clear to you, dear friends, is that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years and a thousand years are like one day.
03:09 The Lord is not slow about His promise, as some understand slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing for any to perish but for all to come to repentance.
03:10 The day of the Lord will come like a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements will be burned up, and the earth and the works on it will be exposed.
03:11 Maintain yourselves in holy conduct and godliness.
03:12 Anticipating and longing for the coming of the day of God, upon which the heavens will be dissolved with burning and the elements will melt with fervent heat.
03:13 New heavens and a new earth according to His promise, in which righteousness dwells.
03:14 Prepare diligently, dearly beloved, to be found by Him in peace, spotless and blameless.
03:15 And regard the longsuffering of our Lord as salvation, just as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you,
03:16 As in all his letters, even this one, where some things are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist as they do the other scriptures to their own destruction.
03:17 You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, beware lest being led away by the error of the lawless, you sink from your own steadfastness.
03:18 Grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.
