01:01 Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to those who are called, sanctified by God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ:
01:02 Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you.
01:03 Beloved, I have a great urgency to write to you concerning our common salvation, for it is necessary for me to exhort you to contend earnestly for the faith once for all delivered to the saints.
01:04 These men, once long ago condemned, have ungodly perverted the grace of our God into licentiousness and have denied the only Lord Jesus Christ, our Master.
01:05 I want to remind you, that knowing all of you once, Jesus saved a people from the land of Egypt who did not believe, and He destroyed them.
01:06 Maintained angels who did not keep their own position, but left their proper dwelling, He has kept in eternal chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day.
01:07 Like Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, they are exhibiting examples of eternal fire's judgment.
01:08 These men also are dreamers, defiling the flesh, rejecting authority, and blaspheming glories.
01:09 Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil over Moses' body, dared not bring a condemnation of blasphemy, but said, "The Lord rebuke you."
01:10 These, who in the things they do not know, are blaspheming; but in what naturally behaves like unreasonable animals, they perish.
01:11 Woe to them, for they have gone the way of Cain, and have run in the errant path of Balaam for reward, and perished in the contradiction of Korah.
01:12 These are senseless men, feasting in your love-feasts while they are unsparing of themselves, clouds without water carried along by winds, autumn trees twice dead and uprooted,
01:13 Wild waves of the sea foaming up their own shame, wandering stars for whom the blackness of darkness is reserved forever.
01:14 Has come the Lord in His holy multitudes.
01:15 Condemns all, and exposes the ungodly concerning all their ungodly deeds, which they have committed; and condemns them all for their hard speeches against Him, sinners and ungodly.
01:16 These are grumblers, malcontents, always complaining, and walking according to their own desires; and their mouth speaks proud things, knowing nothing, but only slanderously uttering against others for personal gain.
01:17 Remember the words of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ, dear ones.
01:18 In the last time, they will mock after their own ungodly desires.
01:19 These are the ones who separate themselves, the worldly, having no spirit.
01:20 You, beloved, are building yourselves up in the most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit.
01:21 Maintain yourselves in love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.
01:22 Condemn them
01:23 Saving from fire those you are snatching, those whom you fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh.
01:24 Makes you able to save and keep you unstained for his presence, blameless in exultation
01:25 To God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, power and authority before all time, now and for all eternities. Amen.
