01:01 Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants what must be done quickly, and he sent by his angel to his servant John.
01:02 Who testified the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ, what he saw.
01:03 Blessed is the one who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep what is written in it; for the time is near.
01:04 Grace and peace to you from Him who is, who was, and who is coming, and from the seven spirits before His throne.
01:05 From Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings of the earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood.
01:06 And he made us a kingdom, priests to God and his Father— to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
01:07 Here it comes with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him; and all tribes of the earth will mourn over him. Yes, amen.
01:08 I am Alpha and Omega, says the Lord, God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.
01:09 I am John, your brother and fellow partaker in suffering, kingdom, and perseverance in Jesus. I was on the island called Patmos due to the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
01:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard a loud voice behind me.
01:11 Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.
01:12 Seven golden candlesticks
01:13 In the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, a figure like a son of man, clothed with a robe reaching his feet and wrapped across his chest with a golden sash.
01:14 His head and hair were white like wool, white as snow, and his eyes were like flames of fire.
01:15 His feet were brass, as if they had been burning in a furnace, and the voice of him was as the sound of many waters.
01:16 Having in his right hand seven stars, and coming out of his mouth a double-edged sharp sword, and his appearance like the sun shining in its power.
01:17 I saw Him, and fell at His feet as dead; and He placed His right hand on me, saying, "Fear not; I am the First and the Last."
01:18 And I died, and behold I am alive forevermore. And I have the keys of Hades and of Death.
01:19 Write therefore what you have seen, and what is, and what will be hereafter.
01:20 The mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands: the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
02:01 Write to the angel of the church in Ephesus...
02:02 I know your deeds, your toil and your perseverance. Indeed, you cannot bear with the wicked, and you have tested those who call themselves apostles, but they are not, and you found them false.
02:03 Endurance you have, and you have persevered because of my name, and you have not grown weary.
02:04 You have forsaken the first love.
02:05 Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent and do the first works, or else I will come to you quickly, and will move your lampstand out of its place, unless you repent.
02:06 You hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
02:07 The one who has ears, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.
02:08 And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: This says the First and the Last, who became dead and lived.
02:09 You know the tribulation and poverty, yet you are rich, and the blasphemy from those claiming to be Jews, but they are not, but a synagogue of Satan.
02:10 Fear not what thou art about to suffer: behold, the devil is about to cast thee into a prison, that thou mayest be tried; and thou shalt have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life.
02:11 The one who has ears, let them hear what the spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes shall not be harmed by the second death.
02:12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: 'This is the word of him who has the sharp two-edged sword:'
02:13 Thou knowest whither I am dwelling, where the throne of Satan is, and thou holdest my name, and I will confess my faith; and in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful one, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.
02:14 Teaches Balak to place a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat idols and commit fornication.
02:15 You also hold the teaching of Nicolaitans similarly.
02:16 Repent, then. If not, I will come to you quickly, and I will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
02:17 The one who has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows except the one receiving it.
02:18 And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: Thus says the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and feet like burnished bronze.
02:19 I know your deeds, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your deeds shall be multiplied in the latter days.
02:20 You have allowed the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, to teach and mislead my servants to commit sexual immorality and to eat things sacrificed to idols.
02:21 gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent from her sexual immorality.
02:22 Here's the English translation of Revelation 2:22 (Koine Greek to formal English): "Behold, I will cast her into a sickbed, and those committing adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of their works."
02:23 And I will kill her children in death; and all the churches shall know that I am the one who searches minds and hearts, and I will give to each one according to his works.
02:24 You tell the rest who are in Thyatira, those who do not have this doctrine, that they do not know the depths of the Satan, as they say. I will not put another burden on you.
02:25 Hold fast until I come.
02:26 and the one conquering and the one keeping My works until the end, I will give him authority over the nations.
02:27 and he will shepherd them with an iron rod, as clay pots are broken.
02:28 I will give him the morning star.
02:29 The one having ears, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
03:01 To the angel of the church in Sardis: These are the words of him who holds the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know your deeds, that you have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead.
03:02 Wake up, and strengthen what remains, that which is about to die; for I have not found your works complete before my God.
03:03 Remember therefore how you heard and held fast, and repent. If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come upon you.
03:04 You have a few names in Sardis that did not defile their garments; they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
03:05 The one overcoming will be clothed in white garments, and I will not erase his name from the book of life, and I will confess his name before my Father and before His angels.
03:06 The one having ears, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches.
03:07 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: This says the Holy One, the True One, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one opens.
03:08 I know your works. Indeed, I have set before you an open door, which no one can shut— because you have little strength, and have kept My word, and did not deny My name.
03:09 Here are your translations for the given Koine Greek verses: 3:9 - "Behold, I will make those who say they are Jews come and worship before your feet, and they will know that I love you."
03:10 You have kept the message of my patience, and I will keep you from the hour of trial that is about to come upon the whole world, to test those who dwell on earth.
03:11 I am coming quickly. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown.
03:12 The overcoming will have this position in the temple of my God, and he shall not go out any longer, and I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and my new name.
03:13 The one having ears, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches.
03:14 And to the angel of the Laodicean church write: Thus says the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation.
03:15 You are hot or cold; I would rather you were cold or hot.
03:16 Thus because thou art lukewarm, I will spue thee out of my mouth.
03:17 You say, "I am rich and have become wealthy, and I lack nothing, and I do not know that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked."
03:18 Buy gold refined by fire, so that you may become rich, and buy fine white linen to clothe yourself, and anoint your eyes with eye ointment that you may see.
03:19 Love those whom I love, and hate those whom I hate. Therefore, zeal and repent.
03:20 Here I am, standing at the door and knocking. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him, and he with me.
03:21 The one conquering will be seated with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne.
03:22 The one having ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
04:01 I saw, and behold, a door standing open in heaven, and the first voice I heard like a trumpet speaking with me, saying, "Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this."
04:02 Immediately I was in the Spirit. And behold, a throne stood in heaven, and One sat on the throne.
04:03 And the One sitting appeared like a jasper stone and carnelian, and around the throne was something like a rainbow.
04:04 Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and on the thrones seated twenty-four elders clothed in white robes, and golden crowns on their heads.
04:05 Lightnings, sounds, thunders; and seven spirits of God send forth their flames before the throne.
04:06 Before the throne, a sea glassy like unto crystal. And in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, four living creatures full of eyes before and behind.
04:07 The first living creature is like a lion, the second living creature is like a calf, the third living creature has a face like that of a man, and the fourth living creature is like an eagle flying.
04:08 Four living creatures, each one having six wings, are full of eyes around and within. And they do not cease to say, "Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come."
04:09 And when the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits on the throne, to the one living forever and ever.
04:10 Fall down before the one who sits on the throne, Worship Him who lives for ever and ever; and cast your crowns before the throne, saying, "You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they were created and have their being."
04:11 Worthy are you, Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they were created and have their being.
05:01 I saw a scroll in the right hand of the one seated on the throne, written inside and outside, sealed with seven seals.
05:02 I saw a mighty angel crying out with a loud voice: Who is worthy to open the scroll and to loose its seals?
05:03 No one could open the book or see it in heaven, on earth, or under the earth.
05:04 And I wept much that no one was found worthy to open the book
05:05 One of the elders says to me, "Do not weep; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has conquered. He opened the book and its seven seals."
05:06 I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures and in the midst of the elders a Lamb standing as if it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent out into all the earth.
05:07 And came and took from the right side of him who was seated on the throne.
05:08 And when he took the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
05:09 Worthy are You to take the scroll and to open its seals, For You have redeemed us from every tribe and tongue and people and nation with Your blood.
05:10 And you made them a kingdom and priests, and they reign on the earth.
05:11 And I heard a voice of many angels around the throne and of the living creatures and of the elders, and the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands.
05:12 Worthy is the slain Lamb to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and blessing.
05:13 All that is created in heaven, on earth, under the earth, and on the sea, and all things in them, I heard them saying: "To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and power for the ages of the ages."
05:14 And the four living creatures said, "Amen." And they fell down and worshiped.
06:01 I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying as a voice like thunder, "Come."
06:02 I saw, and behold, a white horse, and the one sitting on it holding a bow, and he was given a crown, and he went out conquering, and to conquer.
06:03 And when the second seal was opened, I heard the second beast saying, "Come."
06:04 And out came another horse, red, and to him who sat on it was given to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another, and a great sword was given to him.
06:05 And when the third seal was opened, I heard the third living creature say, "Come." I looked, and behold, a black horse, and the one sitting on it had a balance in his hand.
06:06 Do not harm the oil and the wine. A denarius for a measure of wheat, three measures of barley, and a denarius; do not harm the grain, olive oil, or wine.
06:07 When the fourth seal is opened, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, "Come."
06:08 I saw, and behold, a pale horse. And the one sitting on it was called Death, and Hades followed after him. And they were given authority over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, famine, death, and the beasts of the earth.
06:09 And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the testimony they had.
06:10 And they cried out with a loud voice, saying, "How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?"
06:11 And they were given white robes, and it was said to them that they should rest for a little while longer, until both their fellow servants and their brethren, those who are about to be slain as they also, might be fulfilled.
06:12 And I saw when the seventh seal was opened, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became as black as sackcloth, and the moon became as blood.
06:13 And the stars of heaven fell to earth, as a fig tree casts its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind.
06:14 And heaven was rolled up like a scroll, and every mountain and island was moved from its place.
06:15 Kings of the earth, the nobles, the military commanders, the rich, the strong, slaves and free, all hid themselves in caves and in the rocks of the mountains.
06:16 And they say to the mountains and rocks, "Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb."
06:17 The day of their great wrath has come. Who can stand?
07:01 Four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, that no wind should blow on the earth, or on the sea, or on any tree.
07:02 I saw another angel coming up from the east, having the living God's seal, and he shouted with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to harm the earth and the sea.
07:03 Do not harm the earth, the sea, or the trees, until we seal the servants of our God on their foreheads.
07:04 And I heard the number of those who were sealed, one hundred forty-four thousand, sealed from every tribe of the children of Israel.
07:05 Twelve thousand from the tribe of Judah were sealed, Twelve thousand from the tribe of Reuben, Twelve thousand from the tribe of Gad.
07:06 From the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand, From the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand, From the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand.
07:07 From the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand
07:08 Twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun, Twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph, Twelve thousand marked from the tribe of Benjamin.
07:09 I saw a great multitude that no one could count, from all nations, tribes, peoples, and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. They were clothed in white robes, and palm branches were in their hands.
07:10 The saints shout with a great voice, saying: "The salvation of our God who sits on the throne and of the Lamb."
07:11 And all the angels stood around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God.
07:12 Blessings and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and strength be unto our God for ever and ever. Amen.
07:13 Who are the ones clothed in white robes, and where did they come from?
07:14 These are the ones coming from the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb.
07:15 Before the throne of God they stand, and they worship Him day and night within His temple, and the One seated on the throne will dwell among them.
07:16 They shall hunger and thirst no more, neither shall the sun strike them nor any heat.
07:17 The Lamb in the middle of the throne will shepherd them, and will guide them to springs of living water; and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
08:01 And when the seventh seal is opened, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
08:02 I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and to them were given seven trumpets.
08:03 Another angel came and stood at the golden altar, having gold incense, and he was given much incense to offer with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar before the throne.
08:04 Rises the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, at the hand of the angel before God.
08:05 And the angel took the incense, and he anointed it from the fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth; and there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
08:06 And the seven angels prepared to sound.
08:07 The first hailed; and there came a hail and fire mixed with blood, and it was cast upon the earth; and the third part of the earth was burnt up, and the third part of the trees were burnt up, and every green thing was burnt up.
08:08 The second angel sounded; as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea, and the third part of the sea became blood.
08:09 Third part of the living creatures in the sea perished, and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
08:10 And the third angel sounded; and a great star fell from heaven, burning as a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers and upon the fountains of waters.
08:11 The name of the star is called Wormwood. And the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many people died from the waters, because they were made bitter.
08:12 The fourth angel sounded, and a third of the sun, a third of the moon, and a third of the stars were darkened, and a third of them was darkened so that the day might not shine for a third part of it, and the night in the same way.
08:13 Woe, woe, woe to those dwelling on the earth from the trumpet blasts of the three angels about to sound.
09:01 The fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven to earth. And to him was given the key of the abyss.
09:02 And the abyss was opened, and smoke rose up from the abyss like the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the abyss.
09:03 Locusts emerged from the smoke onto the earth, and they were given authority like that of the scorpions of the earth.
09:04 Do not harm the grass of the earth, nor any green plant, nor any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
09:05 They were given authority not to kill them, but to torment them for five months. And the torment of these men shall be as the torment of a scorpion when it strikes a man.
09:06 And in those days men shall seek death, and shall not find it; and they shall long to die, but death flees from them.
09:07 Horse-like appearance the locusts were prepared for war, and on their heads as crowns resembling gold, and faces like human faces.
09:08 And they had hair like women's hair, and their teeth were as lions.
09:09 They had breastplates as breastplates of iron, and the sound of the wings was like the sound of many horses charging into battle.
09:10 They have tails like scorpions, and stings, and in their tails they have the power to harm men for five months.
09:11 They have on them a king, the angel of the abyss. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek it is Apollyon.
09:12 The one woe has passed; behold, two woes are still to come.
09:13 And the seventh angel sounded; and I heard a voice from the seven trumpets of the golden altar that is before God.
09:14 Release the four angels bound at the great river Euphrates.
09:15 And the four angels were released, who were prepared for an hour, a day, a month, and a year, to kill a third of mankind.
09:16 And the number of the horsemen was two hundred million. I heard the number of them.
09:17 And I saw the horses in the vision, and those sitting on them had robes dipped in fire, hyacinth, and sulfur; the heads of the horses resembled lion's heads, and from their mouths came fire, smoke, and a divine spark.
09:18 From the three plagues these, the third part of mankind, were slain, from fire, smoke, and sulfur coming out of their mouths.
09:19 The authority of the horses is in their mouths, and in their tails they have heads; they do harm.
09:20 And the rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands so as to stop worshiping demons and idols made of gold, silver, brass, stone, wood — which neither can see nor hear nor walk.
09:21 And they did not repent from their murders, nor from their sorceries, nor from their fornication, nor from their thefts.
10:01 I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud, with a rainbow on his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet like pillars of fire.
10:02 And he had in his hand a little scroll, open. And he placed his right foot on the sea, and his left foot on the earth.
10:03 And he roared with a loud voice like a lion; and when he had roared, the seven thunders uttered their voices.
10:04 Seal up what the seven thunders have said and do not write it down.
10:05 And the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven
10:06 And he swore to the living by the eternal God, who created heaven and what is in it, the earth and what is in it, and the sea and what is in it, that there shall be no more delay.
10:07 In the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then the mystery of God would be completed, as He announced to His own servants the prophets.
10:08 And the voice that I heard from heaven spoke to me again and said, "Go, take the book that is open in the hand of the angel who stands on sea and on land."
10:09 Take the book and eat it; it will be bitter to your stomach, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey.
10:10 Ate the little scroll from the angel's hand and it was sweet as honey in my mouth. But when I had eaten it, my stomach was bitter.
10:11 And they said to me, 'You must prophesy again about many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.'
11:01 Raise and measure the temple of God, the altar, and those who worship there.
11:02 Exterior altar of the temple cast out, outside; and measure it not, for it has been given to the Gentiles, and the holy city they will tread underfoot forty-two months.
11:03 And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they will prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth.
11:04 These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands before the Lord of the earth.
11:05 Fire proceeds from their mouths to devour their enemies, and if anyone wants to harm them, thus he must be killed.
11:06 These have the authority to close the heavens, so that rain may not fall on the days of their prophecy, and they have the authority over the waters to turn them into blood and strike the earth with every plague whenever they wish.
11:07 And when they finish their testimony, the beast that ascends out of the abyss will make war with them and overcome them and kill them.
11:08 And their corpses will be on the broad street of the great city, which is called spiritually Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified.
11:09 And they behold the corpses for three days and a half, and they refuse to allow their corpses to be put into a tomb.
11:10 Enjoy themselves over them and rejoice, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
11:11 And after three and a half days the spirit of life from God entered them, and they stood on their feet, and great fear fell upon those who saw them.
11:12 And they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, "Come up here," and they went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies beheld them.
11:13 In that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell; seven thousand names of men were slain in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
11:14 The second woe is past; the third woe comes quickly.
11:15 The seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, "The kingdom of the world of our Lord and of His Christ has come, and He shall reign forever and ever."
11:16 The four and twenty elders falling down before God's throne worshiped God
11:17 Praise be to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and was, for you have taken your great power and begun to reign.
11:18 And the nations were enraged, and your wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and to reward your servants the prophets and the saints and those who fear your name, both small and great, and to destroy those destroying the earth.
11:19 The temple of God in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant could be seen within his temple. Lightning flashes, sounds, thunders, and an enormous hailstorm occurred.
12:01 A great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
12:02 In labor and crying out in birth pains
12:03 And another sign appeared in heaven, and behold, a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems.
12:04 And his tail swept a third of the stars from heaven, and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bears her child he may devour it.
12:05 And she gave birth to a son, a male, who is destined to shepherd all the nations with an iron rod. And her child was snatched away and taken to God and to His throne.
12:06 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where there is a place prepared by God, that she might be nourished there a thousand two hundred and sixty days.
12:07 And a war ensued in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon.
12:08 And they could not prevail, nor was any place found for them in heaven.
12:09 The great dragon, the ancient serpent, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world—was cast out to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
12:10 Immediately there was a great voice from heaven saying, "The salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have now come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God."
12:11 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives even unto death.
12:12 Rejoice, heaven and those dwelling in it! Woe to the earth and the sea, for the devil has come down to you, having great wrath, because he knows that he has little time.
12:13 And when the dragon saw that the woman was cast into the earth, he persecuted the woman who brought forth the male child.
12:14 Given wings to the woman were the two wings of the great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time from the presence of the serpent.
12:15 The serpent poured water out of his mouth after the woman, as a river, to make her flow away.
12:16 The earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the river which the dragon had poured from his mouth.
12:17 The dragon was enraged at the woman, and he went to wage war with the remaining offspring of her who keep the commandments of God and hold the testimony of Jesus.
12:18 And stood upon the sand of the sea.
13:01 I saw a beast rising out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, on its horns were ten diadems, and on its heads blasphemous names.
13:02 The beast I saw resembled a leopard, its feet were like those of a bear, and its mouth was like that of a lion. The dragon gave it his power, his throne, and great authority.
13:03 And one of its heads as it were wounded to death, and the mortal wound of the beast was healed. And marveled all the earth following the beast.
13:04 And they worshiped the dragon, for it gave its authority to the beast; and they worshiped the beast, saying: "Who is like the beast, and who can fight against it?"
13:05 And it was given to him to speak great blasphemies, and authority to make war for forty-two months.
13:06 Opened his mouth to blasphemy against God, to blaspheme His name and His tabernacle, those dwelling in heaven.
13:07 And he was given power over all the nations, and tongues, and peoples, and languages.
13:08 And all who dwell on earth shall worship him, whose name has not been written in the Book of Life of the Lamb that was slain from the foundation of the world.
13:09 If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
13:10 The one who is destined for captivity shall go to captivity; the one who is to be slain with the sword shall be slain. Here is the patience and faith of the saints.
13:11 I saw another beast ascending out of the earth, having two horns like a lamb and speaking like a dragon.
13:12 And he does grant the authority of the first beast before him. And he causes the earth and those dwelling in it to worship the first beast, whose wound was healed from death.
13:13 Makes great signs, so that fire comes down from heaven to earth in the sight of people.
13:14 Deceives those dwelling on the earth through the signs which were given to him to perform before the beast, saying to those dwelling on the earth to make an image to the beast, who has the wound of the sword and lived.
13:15 And it was given to him to breathe a spirit into the image of the beast, so that also the image of the beast might speak and cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be killed.
13:16 Marks shall be given to all: small and great, rich and poor, free and slave, on their right hand or on their foreheads.
13:17 No one can buy or sell unless they have the mark, either the name of the beast or the number of its name.
14:01 I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him one hundred forty-four thousand having His name and the name of His Father written on their foreheads.
14:02 I heard a loud voice from heaven, like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder. The voice that I heard was as the sound of a harp being played on lyres.
14:03 They sing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the hundred and forty-four thousand who were purchased from the earth.
14:04 These are virgins who have not been defiled; for they follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These were purchased from among men as a firstfruit to God and to the Lamb.
14:05 And in their mouths was found no lie; they are blameless.
14:06 I saw another angel flying in midheaven, having eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth and every nation and tribe and language and people.
14:07 Fear God and give him glory, for the time of his judgment has come; worship him who made heaven and earth, sea and waters.
14:08 Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, she who makes all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
14:09 And another angel, the third, followed them, saying with a loud voice: "If anyone worships the beast and his image, he will receive a mark on his forehead or on his hand."
14:10 Drinks from the wine of God's wrath, unmixed, in the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
14:11 The smoke of their torment rises forever and ever; they have no respite day or night, those who worship the beast and his image, and anyone who receives the mark of his name.
14:13 Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. The Spirit says, "They may rest from their labor, for their deeds follow them."
14:14 I saw, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud one sitting, like a son of man, having on His head a golden crown and in His hand a sharp sickle.
14:15 Send out the sickle and reap, for the time to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is ripe.
14:16 And he that sat upon the cloud thrust his sickle on the earth: and the earth was reaped.
14:17 Another angel came out from the temple which is in heaven, having a sharp sickle.
14:18 Send your sharp sickle and gather the grapes of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are ripe.
14:19 And the angel threw his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
14:20 The winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress as far as the horse bridles, by eighteen hundred stadia.
15:01 I saw another sign in heaven, great and amazing: seven angels with seven plagues, for in them the wrath of God was completed.
15:02 I saw as a sea of glass mixed with fire, and those who conquer the beast and its image and the number of its name standing on the sea of glass, having harps of God.
15:03 And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, "Great and marvelous are Your works, Lord God, Almighty! Just and true are Your ways, King of the ages!"
15:04 Who shall not fear, Lord, and glorify Your name, since You alone are holy? For all the nations will come and worship before You, since Your judgments have been revealed.
15:05 And after that I looked, and the temple of the tabernacle of witness in heaven was opened.
15:06 The seven angels came out of the temple, clothed in pure and radiant linen, and girded about their chests with golden sashes.
15:07 And one from the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls filled with the wrath of God who lives forever and ever.
15:08 The temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and His power, and no one could enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.
16:01 And I heard a great voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, "Go and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God upon the earth."
16:02 A terrible and evil plague came upon the people who bore the mark of the beast and those who worshipped its image.
16:03 And the second poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood as of a dead man; and every living creature that was in the sea died.
16:04 And the third poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters, and it became blood.
16:05 Righteous are you, who are and who were, for you have judged these things.
16:06 Holy are the ones who shed the blood of saints and prophets, for you have given them blood to drink; they deserve it.
16:07 And I heard the altar saying, "Yes, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are your judgments."
16:08 The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was given to him to scorch people with fire in their hearts.
16:09 People were scorched with great heat, and they blasphemed the name of the God who has the power over these plagues, yet they did not repent of giving him glory.
16:10 And the fifth poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast; and its kingdom was plunged into darkness, and they gnawed their tongues because of the pain.
16:11 And they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and because of their sores, and they repented not of their works.
16:12 The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up, to prepare a way for the kings from the east.
16:13 And I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs.
16:14 The spirits are the demons performing signs, which go out to the kings of the whole world, gathering them together for the battle of the great day of God Almighty.
16:15 Here comes as a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake and keeps their garments, so that they may not walk naked and see their shame.
16:16 Brings them to the place called in Hebrew Armageddon.
16:17 And the seventh poured out his bowl into the air—and came forth a great voice out of the temple from the throne saying, "It is done."
16:18 Thunder and voices and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake.
16:19 The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. Babylon the great was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of His wrath.
16:20 All islands fled, and mountains were not found.
16:21 Large hailstones descend from heaven upon people, and people blasphemed God because the plague of the hailstone was extremely severe.
17:01 Here comes one of the seven angels who have the seven bowls, and he spoke with me, saying, "Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters.
17:02 With her, kings of the earth have committed adultery, and those who dwell on the earth have become drunk with the wine of her fornication.
17:03 And he carried me away in the Spirit. I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast, full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns.
17:04 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, holding a golden cup full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication.
17:05 And on her forehead was written, Mystery, Babylon the Great, the Mother of Prostitutes and of Earth's Abominations.
17:06 I saw the woman drinking the blood of the saints, and the blood of those who were martyred by Jesus. A great wonder.
17:07 The angel said to me: "Why did you marvel?" I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that holds her, having seven heads and ten horns.
17:08 The beast that you saw is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss, and go into destruction. And those dwelling on earth will marvel, whose names were not written in the book of life since they saw the beast that was and is not, and yet will be.
17:10 The five have fallen, the one is, the other has not come yet, and when he comes, a little while, it is required for him to stay.
17:11 And the beast that was, is not anymore. Also, it is the eighth, and it comes from the seven, and it goes into destruction.
17:12 And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings, who have not yet received a kingdom, but for one hour they receive authority as kings with the beast.
17:13 These hold a single purpose, and they give their power and authority to the beast.
17:14 These will fight with the lamb, and the lamb will prevail, because He is the Lord of lords and King of kings, and those with Him called, chosen, and faithful.
17:15 The waters that you saw, where the harlot sits, they are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages.
17:16 These ten horns that you saw, and the beast, they will hate the harlot, and they will make her desolate and naked, and they will eat her flesh, and they will burn her in fire.
17:17 The given Greek text is translated as follows: "He gave them a single mind, to give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled."
17:18 The great city which you saw is Babylon, the one having royal power over the kings of the earth.
18:01 After this, I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was illuminated by his glory.
18:02 Fell, Babylon the great, and she became a dwelling place of unclean spirits, a prison for every unclean and hateful bird, and a prison for every unclean and hateful beast.
18:03 From the wine of the wrath of her fornication, all nations have drunk, and the kings of the earth with her have committed fornication, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxury.
18:04 And I heard another voice from heaven saying: 'Come out of her, my people, lest you share in her sins and lest you receive any of her plagues.'
18:05 Her sins have piled up to heaven, and God has remembered her crimes.
18:06 Give back to her as she also gave, and double to her in accordance with her deeds. In the cup in which she mixed, pour out double for her.
18:07 She should be given torment and mourning in the same amount that she gave them glory and luxury. For in her heart it says, "I sit as a queen, and I am not a widow, and I will not mourn."
18:08 In one day her plagues come, death and mourning and famine, and in fire she will be burned, for the Lord God who judges her is strong.
18:09 And they will weep and mourn over her who is destroyed by fire, the kings of the earth who fornicated and lived luxuriously with her, when they see the smoke of her burning.
18:10 Woe, woe to the great city, Babylon, the mighty city, for in one hour your judgment has come.
18:11 Mourners of the earth wail and lament over her, because no one buys their merchandise anymore.
18:12 Gold and silver, precious stones, pearls, crystal, coral, purple, scarlet, wood of every kind, and every vessel made of ivory, and every vessel made of expensive wood, brass, iron, marble, and copper.
18:13 Incense and myrrh and fragrant oils and liquid myrrh and wine and oil and sweet spices and wheat and cattle and sheep, horses and horses' trappings and bodies, souls of men.
18:14 The hour of your judgment has come; and the luxurious things and the fine things have passed away from you, and they will find them no more.
18:15 Merchants from her, the wealthy, will stand far off because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning
18:16 Woe, woe, great city, clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls!
18:17 The great wealth has been made desolate in one hour. All ship captains, all on board a ship, and those who work the sea are standing afar off.
18:18 And they cried out, seeing the smoke of her burning, saying, 'Who is like the great city?'
18:19 Great city, where all who had ships grew rich from the wealth of the sea, in one hour she has been made desolate.
18:20 Rejoice over her, heaven, and you apostles and prophets, for God has judged your judgment from her.
18:21 And a mighty angel picked up a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, "So shall Babylon the great city be thrown down, and she shall not be found anymore.
18:22 And the sound of harps and lyres and flutes and trumpets will not be heard in you anymore. And every artisan of every skill will not be found in you anymore. And the sound of a millstone will not be heard in you anymore.
18:23 And the light of a lamp will not shine in you any longer, And the voice of the bridegroom and the bride will not be heard in you any longer. For your merchants were the great ones of the earth, Because in your sorcery all the nations were deceived.
18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets and saints, and all who have been slaughtered on the earth.
19:01 Here's the translation of Revelation 19:1 from Koine Greek to formal English: "After these things I heard a great voice of a multitude in heaven saying, 'Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God.'"
19:02 True and righteous are his judgments. For he has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.
19:03 And the second said, "Hallelujah!" And the smoke of her goes up for ever and ever.
19:04 And the twenty-four elders fall down before God who is seated on the throne, and they worship Him, saying, "Amen, Hallelujah."
19:05 Praise to God our Father All His servants, and those who fear Him, both small and great.
19:06 And I heard as it were the voice of a multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunders, saying, "Hallelujah! For the Lord God Omnipotent reigns."
19:07 We rejoice and exult, and we will give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has prepared herself.
19:08 And she was given pure bright linen to wear; for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.
19:09 Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And these words are true sayings of God.
19:10 Worship Him! I am His slave, and you who have the testimony of Jesus; worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
19:11 I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and the one sitting on it called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he judges and makes war.
19:12 Eyes blazing with fire, and on his head many diadems, having a name written that no one knows except himself
19:13 Dressed in a robe dipped in blood, and called is his name the Word of God.
19:14 Following armies in heaven followed him on white horses, dressed in pure white linen.
19:15 Sharp sword comes from his mouth, to strike the nations with it; and he himself will rule them in iron rod; and he tramps the winepress of the wrath of God Almighty.
19:16 King of kings and Lord of lords.
19:17 I saw one angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds flying in midheaven: "Come, assemble for the great supper of God."
19:18 Eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of commanders, the flesh of the powerful, the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all free people and slaves, both small and great.
19:19 I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to wage war against the one sitting on the horse and against his army.
19:20 The false prophet was also conquered, along with the beast he had imitated in performing signs that had deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped its image. They were thrown alive into the lake of fire burning with brimstone.
19:21 And the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was seated on the horse, and all the birds were filled from the flesh of them.
20:01 I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
20:02 And he bound the serpent, the ancient one, who is the Devil and Satan, and he confined him for a thousand years.
20:03 Throws him into the abyss, and locks and seals it upon him, so that he may deceive the nations no more until the thousand years are completed; afterward he must be released for a little while.
20:04 I saw thrones, and those seated on them were given authority, and the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and those who had not worshiped the beast or his image nor received the mark on their foreheads or hands, they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
20:05 The remaining dead did not live until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.
20:06 Blessed and holy is the one having a part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with Him for a thousand years.
20:07 And when the thousand years have passed, Satan will be released from his prison.
20:08 And he shall go out to deceive the nations that are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war; the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.
20:09 And they ascended upon the breadth of the earth, and encompassed the camp of the saints and the beloved city. And fire came down from heaven and devoured them.
20:10 The devil, who had deceived them, was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where also the beast and the false prophet will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
20:11 I saw a great white throne and the One seated on it, from whom the earth and the heaven fled away, and no place was found for them.
20:12 The dead, both great and small, stood before the throne. Books were opened, and another book was opened which is the Book of Life. The dead were judged according to what they had done.
20:13 And the sea gave up the dead in it, and Death and Hades gave up the dead in them, and they were judged each one according to his works.
20:14 And Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
20:15 And whoever was not found in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire.
21:01 I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there is no longer any sea.
21:02 I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
21:03 And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, "Behold, God's dwelling is with man, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be His people, and God Himself will be with them."
21:04 And there will be no more tears, nor mourning nor crying nor pain; the first things have passed away.
21:05 And the one sitting on the throne said, "Behold, I am making all things new." And he said, "Write, for these words are true and trustworthy."
21:06 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will freely give to him who thirsts from the spring of the water of life.
21:07 The one conquering will inherit these, and I will be his God, and he will be my son.
21:08 The cowardly, the faithless, the vile, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars will have their portion in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.
21:09 Here comes one of the seven angels who have the seven bowls, and he spoke with me, saying: "Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb."
21:10 And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God.
21:11 The city shining with the glory of God. Its radiance is like a most precious stone, as a jasper stone being crystal clear.
21:12 The city has a great and high wall, has twelve gates, and on the gates are twelve angels, and the names of the twelve tribes of Israel are written on them.
21:13 From the east three gates, from the north three gates, from the south three gates, and from the west three gates.
21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
21:15 The one speaking with me had a gold reed to measure the city, its gates, and its wall.
21:16 The city is square, and its length is equal to its width. He measured the city with a reed, twelve thousand stadia; its length, width, and height are equal.
21:17 The wall was measured, a hundred and forty-four cubits, the measure of a man, which is of an angel.
21:18 The building of the wall is jasper, and the city pure gold, like clear glass.
21:19 The foundations of the walls of the city are adorned with precious stones. The first foundation is jasper, the second sapphire, the third chalcedony, and the fourth emerald.
21:20 The fifth is sardonyx, the sixth is sardion, the seventh is chrysolite, the eighth is beryl, the nineth is topaz, the tenth is chrysoprase, the eleventh is hyacinth, the twelfth is amethyst.
21:21 Twelve gates, twelve pearls; one gate was of one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
21:22 The temple I did not see in it, for the Lord God Omnipotent is her temple, and the Lamb.
21:23 The city needs no sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
21:24 And the nations will walk by its light. And the kings of the earth bring in their glory into it.
21:25 Its gates will never be shut by day, for there shall be no night there.
21:26 Bring in the glory and honor of the nations to it.
21:27 And no common one shall enter it, nor anyone who does abomination and deceit, if not those written in the Book of Life of the Lamb.
22:01 Crystal-clear river of life flowing from the throne of God and the Lamb
22:02 In the middle of its street. Also, on either side of the river, there is a tree of life producing twelve fruits every month, yielding its fruit every month. And the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations.
22:03 And there shall be no more curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and His servants shall worship Him.
22:04 And they shall see His face, and His name on their foreheads.
22:05 And there shall be no more night, and they need no longer any lamp or sunlight, for the Lord God will give them light, and they shall reign forever and ever.
22:06 These words are true and genuine, and the Lord God of the prophets sent his angel to show His servants what must be accomplished swiftly.
22:07 Blessed is he who keeps the words of this prophetic book. I am coming quickly.
22:08 I, John, am the one who hears and sees these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel showing them to me.
22:09 Worship God. I am thy fellow-servant, and thy brethren the prophets, and them that keep the words of this book: worship God.
22:10 Do not seal up the words of this prophecy, for the time is near.
22:11 The wicked continues to do wickedness, The filthy continues to be filthy, The righteous continues to do righteousness, And the holy continues to be holy.
22:12 Here comes quickly, and my reward is with me, to give each one according to what his work is.
22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
22:14 Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city.
22:15 Outside are the dogs, and sorcerers, and the sexually immoral, and murderers, and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.
22:16 I am Jesus, who sent my angel to testify to you these things in the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.
22:17 And the spirit and the bride say, "Come." And he who hears, let him say, "Come." And he who thirsts, let him come, he who desires let him take the water of life freely.
22:18 I testify to everyone who hears the words of this prophecy: if anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues recorded in this book.
22:19 If anyone takes away from the words of this prophecy book, God will take away his part from the tree of life and from the holy city, which are written in this book.
22:20 The witness says these things: Yes, I am coming quickly. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.
22:21 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you all.
